welcome everyone this is the IPL de
weekly sync meeting it's August the 19th
2019 and that's every week we just
report what we've been up to and then
discuss any open issues if you want to
talk about yeah and I start right away
with stuff I've been working on and I
start with great news because there was
this issue that in the Seaboard world
you can register for certain tags and
someone register for take 42 and it
turns out that they are really nice
people and they decided that we can have
this tag and they just move to some
other other tag so the CDs in seaboard
will be take 40 to it which we currently
use we will get the official stamp on it
um and it's especially when I spent time
on and now I've also first draft because
they need to have a spec and man this is
what I'm working on and hopefully I so
my plans reacted to get it finished this
week because I will also be in a
conference for the next week so for 10
days I won't be and we'll get conference
so I hope hopefully posted it this week
so then we are good to go and yeah have
this tag officially registered at E I
you know other than that I yeah did a
bit of I give a stuff to get their
problem with the single with endeavor I
thought so what I basically did is that
I did this work and I felt I needed it
for the iPhone the world but it turns
out like I can't recall why I thought I
would need it but anyway I did the work
and works so they are happy yeah
that's it from me who's next my list
eric is maximalists so I had a long dark
teatime of the soul a very thoughtful
more contemplative than I wanted even
time trying to figure out what we should
do with map ordering I think that's an
issue we've we know is going to be an
issue and we've kind of tried to dodge
it for the most part so far fairly
successfully so like good and I was
trying to work on decoding logic that
will work well and be really efficient
in the code generation stuff that I'm
working on around structs that schemas
and I just like ten gems we got into
this map ordering thing and it just it's
a really big hairy domain so I spent a
bunch of time trying to come up with the
solution and I think so far all I've
come up with is actually a list of facts
which reach contradiction for there
being any single solution at all I'm
just kind of frustrating and not really
what I wanted but I guess might be
progress we have to do something because
we have iterators in the data model they
have to have a behavior wherever it is
some codecs have ordering opinions if
the data model like the storage that we
have in memory has different ordering
opinions than like just naturally some
cost will emerge somewhere you have to
do a snort or rearrangement to some
other predefined order whatever there is
some overhead there it's just a question
of what kind of overhead and where you
could push it and yeah combined with the
fact that stuff like hams will for
example have their own ordering opinions
which are based on a logic inside of
them and trying to run against the grain
on those will have inherent performance
costs as well there's just no obvious
slam-dunk which reconciles all of these
things
so I'm still kind of trying to churn
through that and figure out which things
are even interface design issues in the
code versus spec issues and where the
spec issues should land so I think this
just come out in one big exploration
document first and then we'll like we
have to go through a couple of rounds of
figuring out which parts of it even go
where what idea that I've had so far
that seems to simplify a lot of things
it's just making sure that ordering
opinions stay mostly bound to the codec
layer like when we're using deck C what
we care about having sorted order for
caching that is consistent with deck c1
but if you're in another codec here I
are gonna have a different a so if you
have a different canonical order that's
fine
and that answers some questions but not
even remotely all of them so so I mean
in practice right you end up dealing
with an enumerator for the kinds at
least you end up dealing with an
in-memory iterator over some primitive
structure that got serialize into so we
don't even have the ability to determine
that ordering right like like French
like like for instance like I you know
the Jason spec now says that these need
to be order in utf-8 like when you
encode them because that isn't defined
an adjacent spec so of course does that
ordering if you put them into a Python
object like every deserialize it will do
they are now in a new random order
because internally inside of that
structure in Python it's using some kind
of set and there's some kind of under
than behind like doering yep yeah so you
made those notes in my document in
progress yeah but that's yeah that's a
very real problem for several languages
some languages make sort of maps and
reasonably internal implementation
efficient ways and some of us are just
like kind of out of luck on that right
like I think Python might be one of the
kind of out of luck one is to to my
great chagrin
well in a in JavaScript there's a
preserved ordering but it's based on the
insertion order so this has the benefit
that like if we have an ordering that we
encode it will end up in the
deserialized structure so that's good
but we also need to when we're encoding
aria sort them if they were inserted out
of you know utf-8 character ordering so
um they're still like work do we have
again yeah but but isn't ordered Maps
something like it's just Ruby their maps
and shouldn't be there ordered maps
which is something different like I mean
like you guys like but baby do you still
need to have an iterator over maps
certainly but so yeah I like the order
does matter so it's more like like so
for somebody will do filter something
maybe ordering doesn't matter so yeah so
I think like honestly with the multi
block collections this is actually
easier because we have to go and write
the iterator for each of these so we can
specify the behavior pretty little bit I
named the problematic part is is it the
codec layer where we're leveraging a lot
of existing language level assumptions
to like make their way into these
encoders and then it could potentially
give us back the same semantic data with
it a perhaps even with the same code ID
that's what we need to worry about at
the most
yeah yeah there's lots of things that
are scary in that area and just really
an interface design what we present to
the other humans using these libraries
so I'm looking at this as I've got this
node interface right where I'm if I have
a single tree of data that's in one
block a net so no advanced layout stuff
in it then then that's just going to
serialize this map and so like maybe if
we say okay everything has this
canonical order then that one will be
some sorted order a terrain your but
then if I have another thing that's
implemented by hampt and I'm exposing
that as a node and I ask for the same
iterator method then that one's going to
give me ham decoration order so how on
earth do we write our documentation of
this to not surprise user that when
they're using these different
kinds of things underneath they get
consistent but consistently different
orders it's just yeah it's tricky but
but doesn't like wouldn't be the be
order different like to these three or
depends on a codec basically but is it a
problem like like like in like
especially for JSON for example there is
no no order specified for a reason
probably because like that's the little
bit problem says so what's the format if
we not specify it and if you want to
have ordered maps you use an order map
and not a normal bit so so why would you
need order in a map because we care
about the hash and because of the way
the language is encode and decode data
you you could literally like do nothing
to an object and just encode decode it
and re-encode it and then it would end
up with a different hash right
no visit the point is that the any code
is illegal it's need to make sure that
they always end up with the same order
but if you can do something with it it
doesn't matter but if he if you is the
encode then you need to make sure it's
the same order yeah it's like a thing
that we have to deal with in our
encoders and our codec specs but it's
not and yeah yeah but like we shouldn't
expect it to be done in the format layer
right sorry no it's on the data model
but it's on the codec yeah yeah
they are basically yeah in fact I don't
think that we even need we don't have to
have consistent ordering between the
codecs we just have to have the ordering
within a codec
yes he can oh wait because they were
instantly agree with that would be good
that would be super correct but it also
has serious costs because if you're
parsing in the canonical order of one
codec and like let's say it uses some I
don't know it has some sorted order but
it's one that's just like this codec we
made a weird-ass choice no no so then it
stores everything let's say the data
model has and no opinions the data model
we implement everything to keep
exactly whatever order was fed so it
keeps that one and then we serialize it
out in another codec that has a
different sorting order shoot now you
have to sort you have to allocate all
the additional memory needed to do the
sort on the side yeah but this is but if
you stole from someone's seaboard this
is what always happens
like this is what Seymour does like yeah
and we're gonna have to do an engagement
because he will specifies a certain
order and it's this is exciting what
happens if you use so for example like
use Python install it then in so you
have just pythons trap and then stored
in its you or the 618 what happens but
if you if you change order yeah in
simple function you can the Seaboard has
a specified order in the spec yeah so
you can change it so if we have if we
have another codec though that has a
different order then that means when you
switch between them you're going to do
sorting yes
crank which means any possible opinion
that we can put in the data model is
wrong for some set of interfaces correct
therefore we don't put an opinion there
well that may well be part of the answer
but it's also pretty rough I don't know
there's more than one concern active
here to it I think we were like a
document which just enumerate which the
concerns are is important because we've
hammered the heck out of one concern
right now but one of the things that
originally got me here is a very
different concern which was just playing
parser efficiency so like another thing
I'm worried about is we have if we have
a structure definition in a schema and
I'm parsing stuff in the validating
against that and this struct has a bunch
of optional fields if I'm getting things
in a strict known in advance order I can
code gen a parser and a validator for
this which does its work using zero
additional memory because it just
applies the optionality constraint field
by field as it goes so the only thing it
needs is an integer word to say how many
fields have I launched already and if I
have to accept things in random order
it gets more costly no there's just a
whole bunch of things like this which
show up in kind of a fractal of places
where it's not immediately expected so
yeah but I guess I guess the point I'm
trying to make is that that as soon as
we have different codecs and we have
different codecs there will be codecs
that have a specified order and we don't
have a choice so basically it busy it
happens and we don't have a choice
so basically yeah let's yeah
so it's we can work on it and the only
solution I guess is if you really have
ordered sets which is sew em in from the
pivots because like we take the D issue
also with a couchdb touch DB back in the
days because like Erlang doesn't really
have maps so what you do is you use an
array of objects then that question is
well then suddenly their map has an
order like so in Erlang it has a fixed
order but in chess it doesn't in any and
all those weird things it yeah and
therefore yeah anyway yeah but I mean I
I'm looking forward to see us expression
of human and then you can go from there
yeah yeah it might well turn out that
the answer is there is no answer and we
make some series of choices that are
somewhat arbitrary in certain places
because there's no way to avoid the
choice and in other places we have very
carefully avoid making a choice at all
and maybe that will be the best we can
do but yeah yeah it needs a lot of
examination for me to convince myself
that it's actually that difficult I
think yeah Street just I think in did
you take back that seaboard has a
specified order but they was DF a
recommendation in this Bay which I ever
use so it's not like yeah it's not
hard-coded in sleep or but that's the
other everyone is using so I don't know
exactly but I don't
like there doesn't actually sort in
critics first order which is just really
irritating but anyway oh by the way but
the but the order changes in the new
version of seaboard just listen for
information so is and can Tony calls sea
bordering is the old version so I just
basically the on this yet so it's the
the person that made sure we get the tag
pointed out to me that there's a new
version or github I can put it into them
notes which is clear about the ordering
and they do it a bit differently just
yeah so keep this in mind am its the
upcoming work yeah I can put it to it
yeah and I want to say one last thing
yeah so basically but what we need to we
need for our tourists we need some
ordering for all colleagues to make sure
that the hashes are always the same so
we sort of need to have some alright
yeah okay alright yeah I will put it in
the notes cool there anything else
Rick no that was a surprisingly big time
sink I tried to push some coach in at
the same time all right then
next one is rod just having fun
imagining Eric being blocked mentally by
this sitting in the corner mental loop
all right so I have a guilty admission
which is that I spent trotty long onesie
cash last week than I should have but it
was a rabbit hole that I just couldn't
get out of and so I wrote it as a busy
cache block decoder for JavaScript it
was it was really enjoyable and I it was
I I put it down as a learning experience
I learned a lot about
blockchain blocks and I count with a new
binary decoding technique that I think
could be useful elsewhere but yeah I'll
tighten it up and figure out how to
propose that get it integrated with the
about I peeled easy cash thing I did a
little bit more habit work coming up
with this because the spec of the HAMP
distant is not in it's not in in perfect
sync with the implementation I'm having
some trouble with the testing done okay
but I need to sort that out on the
JavaScript side and then make sure that
the go side is identical but not enough
meaningful work there to report anything
of note and that's really all I have
pool of things Michael do you have
anything you want to report trying to
remember what I actually did last week
so I followed up on all the issue stuff
that we talked to do we had is that that
big you know thing of issues to deal
with so there was some stuff about Jason
stack and a few other things um I really
need to rewrite the roadmap in the okrs
based on the last meeting that I had and
do some other follow-ups from the PAC
meeting and send out an override update
plenty of doing that last week but I got
caught up with some metric stuff and
some and then I was out sick for a few
days so hopefully that I'll get done
within the next day or two we should be
pleased
one cool thing though about the metrics
was that I was doing that you know you
want to check out so github actions are
pretty amazing and you can do roughly
anything with them um so you can kick
off actions win new issues come in new
pull requests and then you can just run
arbitrary code in the docker
file-like in any language and it also
gets minted a new github token every
time so if you want to talk to get have
again you can just use that token to the
course to get up so we're using this now
for some ipfs metrics they get collected
every day you can also send up to the
cron job basically so they'll just run
on some use of the cron syntax and
everything to to run on the scheduled
time and then you can check that data
that you collect back into the same repo
and you can generate human readable
readme like human readable markdown
files and put them on the repo so it it
becomes this sort of system onto itself
with all these different hooks from
different things that happen in the repo
and the repo sort of like a state
machine and then it also integrates sort
of all the the information about all the
runs and do it and everything gets
opened by default so it's a really
really nice set up for projects like
ours that want to start doing any kind
of automation around the project so
super super useful go ahead and check it
out if you feel up for it that's about
all I got cool things and I forget to
add that on my so also a little dings on
the craft for the spec for the Seaboard
take everyone to get your feedback as
soon as possible to really get get a
push through this week so yeah yeah five
past iterations please yeah okay um
other than that yeah so I yeah I will be
out next week
is there anything else we want to
discuss any items one thing I just saw
we should may be able look at the IRC
and IP LD someone was thinking out loud
about some protobuf stuff and I don't
know if I have instantaneous good
answers for that I think we may want to
UM I have remembered that we also had
some discussions that there aren't many
protobuf users and we were seriously
considering doing some retconning on
what some of the
codec numberings meaning around that
basically be like this is Unix FS v1
style parsing and if we're gonna do
those things we should I don't want to
go full depth on protobuf codecs right
now because I just don't have the time
and attention to do well but maybe we
should outline a note about how like the
old AG protobuf has like these
particular weird opinions about links
and stuff which are no longer in sync
with the IPA OT day tomorrow by the way
that's a thing and it's over here mmm
like at least make a placeholder for a
new protobufs
because it would be maybe um so this
person that's in this thing so they're
saying that they're they're using their
own portable thing not Doug TV so maybe
this is already is that what they're
saying I can't know I for an
intermediate representation yeah I don't
know I mean this thing that put them up
is 10x faster which I'm very surprised
by that should not be the case well it
is why I think it could because the
point of Sieber is that you always have
this tiny me like you don't know what
the keys are and program office is more
like structs so you can certainly like
easy extra things but it could be also
egg any other format you use not like to
the powers so if you used for example
like Seabourn erase is probably just as
fast I think we need to ask for more
information
[Music]
cool yeah okay
anything else nope
cool then we wear quite quick and so I
close this meeting thanks everyone for
attending and watching our 1000 people
in the livestream hey goodbye everyone
top the stream